I know we kind of blazed through
that last part right at the ending,
blazingly fast as they say.
And so we're gonna kinda go back and we're
gonna test each version of the config we
created cuz there's a little bit of tricky
logic there plus you get to see how
testing works in every single
one of these languages.
I will be trying to use just the most
vanilla version of the testing available
which means that I won't be doing
any additional installations for
TypeScript other than jest as or
TypeScript doesn't have testing inherent.
So you have to install something.
For Go there are good assertion libraries,
that make things a lot easier.
We're just simply not going to use those,
and of course, for
Rust there is some like pretty print
assertion macros that you can use,
we'll just be using what is available.
All right, so let's just get started.
I think it'll be a great time.
So let's jump back over into,
we're gonna start off with Typescript,
should be pretty easy.
All right, so let's add some tests.
So we do need to do this first,
so let's start with this.
By the way, I did have some errors when
I was doing this just like a week and
a half ago.
There's this whole just 28 vs TSGs.
And there are some problems.
So if for whatever reason you're
running into a goofy problem,
just try going into your package.JSON and
turning 28 into 27 reinstall stuff and
see if that works out for you.
So I'm just gonna start off with this
of course, jump over to TypeScript.
Add an extra one of these.
Paste in, there we go.
Should take a moment.
See, you can tell this is real things.
It took a moment.
All right, and it's just init.
And of course, let's see,
do you want to do this?
Yes, I do want testing.
Yes, I do want TypeScript,
yes, it'll be for node.
I don't care about coverage.
Make sure you use Babel.
Sure, why not clear all the mocks,
I don't think that's gonna hurt us at all.
So there we go,
we're not gonna use mocks awesome.
We have everything done and now created
a nice little testing config for us.
So let's just make sure that
everything worked swell and
let's create a test subdirectory
that's kinda the shape you want for
jest, that's kinda the convention,
right now in JavaScript.
I've seen some other conventions recently
where they've been putting the testing
files adjacent to these files
just having a.jest.ts in them.
I'm not sure if that's gaining traction or
not JavaScript standards
change all the time.
Very hard to keep up but
let's go config.ts and
let's just make sure we can do,
this is a test.
Awesome, so this should work.
Expect true to equal false.
Let's have a nice failing test.
Make sure everything's working.,npx jest.
And what do we get out here?
Okay, awesome,
everything worked out first try.
Our init must have been successful, so
I believe we are good to go, right?
So long as everyone got to here, awesome.
So let's get started,
we'll just import our previous config.
And the only things I'd really
cover in this kind of testing,
kind of a quick note on testing, I think
unit testing is always a good idea to do.
You got to be careful about over testing,
be careful about testing
implementation details.
I tried to always just test
public interfaces, and
I tried to pretend to be dumb about
what's happening underneath the hood.
Because once you start getting a little
too, once you get too clever by half,
you start getting into the point of once
you make some sort of private refactor,
you start breaking unit
tests all over the place.
Because they they expect some underlying
shape and can be a bit dangerous.
So let's go import, config or,
I wonder if it can be auto imported,
anyways who cares, config, are we I
guess we call this get config, right?
Well get config and we also have to handle
the options and if I'm not mistaken,
the options can just
simply be an empty object.
So we don't really need to get
all that information in there,
so let's start off with
a simple print all, right?
So that's all I'm gonna do, now of course
testing, we generate these special pass
config and present working directory, I'm
not gonna check on those ones because that
means my testing has to go and
like look up environment variables.
And eventually I write my own program for
testing.
Little dangerous, we're just gonna
make sure that the operations and
the arguments are exactly what I think.
So we'll start off with config and
go get config.
Start off with a nice little empty object,
I should be able to expect,
config, operation,
ellipses toEqual, Operation.
See if we can get it nice it's
not getting imported in for me.
No we're making fun of
my LSP today by the way,
everybody we're gonna have no
LSP problems, I can feel it and
of course you're gonna want to go
in here and just prove that right?
Pretty simple test, I think we
can kind of all expect like yeah,
this is like our most basic operation
which is just the print everything at your
current directory operation.
I'm gonna just take that paste
it do the exact same thing,
print key, pass in an argument, foo.
I believe it should be one of these,
right?
There we go.
This should do the exact same thing,
we should have the argument f print and
of course of foo, awesome.
And we'll do it again.
We'll do something with add, and
we'll do something with remove and
we'll kind of call that good.
We're not gonna go into
error expectations.
We could do some error testing as well,
but for
me this is probably good enough because
really the goal right here is just to
kind of make sure everyone is a familiar
what's available for testing.
But also be to just always reinforce
a good habit of at least put
up a little bit of
guardrails in your life.
Now I have had people argue that you
shouldn't put up any guardrails.
And it's an interesting approach to life.
For me, I don't think I could emotionally
handle that because I have dealt with too
many code bases that are covered in
no tests and finding bugs is very,
very difficult.
So there we go,
just did the whole ad operation.
These are all obviously
just happy path ones.
Just like little happy test
cases out there in the forest.
I'm pretty sure Bob Ross would be
very happy at this moment that we're
doing that.
There we go.
And of course,
removing only requires a single key.
So let's make sure we can remove the key,
and this should end with a remove.
I assume none of these
things are kind of too wild.
Let's make sure everything
actually worked out,
so I'll do an npx jest,
added in a little extra character.
There we go, we actually got
a failed test, what happened?
Yes, this fun test right here.
So what ended up happening is that,
though we did init,
jest config with TypeScript,
I believe the preset did not do that.
And I forget what you had to put here.
But I wanna say you say ts jest.
I wanna say that's what you have to do.
So, I think that's correct.
I may have to Google it.
Okay, there we go.
We did actually [LAUGH] do the right
thing which is kind of painful that
though setting up jest and
all that it doesn't actually quite do it.
And so there we go, so
we have a couple of errors right here,
it looks like we actually
did find a real bug, right?
I must have redefined path or something
because it can't do this correctly.
So let's jump back into our code,
go back into so
whoever bet on first try working clearly
feels a little bit robbed right now.
So did I have other paths out?
Yes, so of course,
this is just more crying in configuration,
which is,
if you don't have es module interrupt,
I think is what the things
called in your TS config.
You can't import one of these like that.
So I have two ways of fixing it, either
fix it in my ts config or just do that.
So, let's just do that, why not?
Just feels good, right?
Just do a nice quick hack and everything
should hopefully work out better.
We'll look at that.
We found out that we
have messed something up.
So this is very, very excited.
At least I'm very excited.
So what have we messed up here?
So let's go up and let's look at this
adding key, removing key, awesome,
as you can see right here,
it looks like kinda goofed this up, right?
Obviously, our cases aren't
quite catching everything and
we are not doing an add
operation when we expect it.
So for whatever reason,
we need to figure that out right now.
So let's first just jump back in here.
See if we can just spot
it with a quick look.
Good operation, this all looks kind
of like what I would expect it to,
opts 0 is, here you go.
There's the problem.
I can't believe you guys
didn't catch this yesterday.
I feel like you should have caught this.
I'm also a little surprised that
TypeScript didn't throw an error here.
All right, I would expect it to throw
a little bit more of upsetness here.
I wonder if it has to do with the fact
that I don't think I actually have
a tsconfig.json.
Let's just put an empty one right there.
And we'll that's solve our problem.
Cuz it's actually kind of funny
that that didn't get shown up.
I usually program just
expecting things to work.
Yeah, so
really I should be having args, right?
I'm indexing 0 into an object
which does not have that key.
I must have done something
in my config set up there.
There we go, so that should make it so
that we have the correct item.
We spotted the problem
without doing anything.
Everything else looks good.
I'm a little skeptical at this point that
everything is gonna work out fantastic.
I was hoping that TypeScript
would save me here and
normally I feel like it does a great job.
I must have something slightly off,
but anyways, there we go, we got it.
Yeah, everyone happy?
Everyone get it?.
Everyone has the test going, I assume that
the people in the audience here in front
of Masters by the way, I'm not talking to
random people, there's people right here.
I assume you guys at least
you're all familiar with jest so
none of this stuff is too wild,
right, okay